Work is work

It is simpler, cleaner and more motivating to see work as just work.
Work is not a place to prove philosophical doctrines nor a place to change the world. Work is not something that should get hold of your soul so much that you think about it 24/7. Work is not a place where you can show off how you can make things happen just because you are a force of nature and that you are able to transcend methodology and planning. Because there are other people there and they have their own way of modelling and interpreting events and projects, and you can only synergize with them if you can agree on a common ground to execute and to follow up.
Work is a social place but it's not family.
Work is a dispassionate place where you can contribute, you get compensated (one way or another) and you get to live your passion somwehere else.
You don't compete at work, you cooperate.
You don't bring your itch to work, you leave your itch outside. You don't expect work to realize your dreams in other areas of life.
And this is truer because it is a better model, and I'll tell you why: although it looks more real and more romantic to go about in different aspects of life treating them as they were the same, this is less natural than the model where a different personality and a different style comes out in different situations and aspects. That's how a normal human being behaves and that fits the world better. When work is not treated as work then the mix allows for problems to leak from one aspect to another, the rigidity to be one and the same in every aspect of life wastes psychological energy. A smarter and fitter model is one where a different strategy is used for every aspect. Not trying to fit it all in one big image of 'who i am' because that image will emrge by itself.

What's better than seeing work as just work. No need to get anything personal. No need to build any theories about how things should have been and deal with things as they are. No need to retaliate. No need to compete. No need to prove anything to anybody. No need to expect any recognition.